# Iteration 0: Project Proposal

**<small>🚧</small>  Work in Progress  <small>🚧</small>**

# Group Formation

Your first task in this iteration is to form a group and register it using the form below:

<form method="POST" action="https://roboose.herokuapp.com/groups">
<fieldset markdown="1">

<legend>Group Registration</legend>

<small>
**<small>🚧</small>  DON’T SUBMIT THIS FORM YET  <small>🚧</small>**
</small>

<label>
Group Identifier  
<input type="text" name="identifier" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
</label>
<small>
This must be a valid GitHub identifier: it may only contain alphanumeric characters or single hyphens, and cannot begin or end with a hyphen.  
Don’t include an `@` sign at the beginning—this isn’t a [mention](https://help.github.com/en/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#mentioning-people-and-teams).  
You may choose an identifier related to your project if you already decided on a project; for example, if your project were [TODOOSE](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose) then your group identifier could be `todoose`. Or you may just choose a name for your group, for example, `power-oosers`.
</small>

<label>
Group Members GitHub Identifiers  
<input type="text" name="member[]" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
<input type="text" name="member[]" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
<input type="text" name="member[]" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
<input type="text" name="member[]" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
<input type="text" name="member[]" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
<input type="text" name="member[]" placeholder="(Optional)" pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
</label>
<small>
These must be the GitHub identifiers of [registered students](/assignments/0#onboarding), for example, [`jhu-oose-example-student`](https://github.com/jhu-oose-example-student).  
Don’t include an `@` sign at the beginning—this isn’t a [mention](https://help.github.com/en/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#mentioning-people-and-teams).  
Groups must have 5 or 6 members.  
</small>

<label>
Preferred Advisors GitHub Identifiers  
<input type="text" name="advisor[]" placeholder="(Optional)" pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
<input type="text" name="advisor[]" placeholder="(Optional)" pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
</label>
<small>
These must be the GitHub identifiers of [group advisors](/staff#group-advisors), for example, [`jhu-oose-example-ca`](https://github.com/jhu-oose-example-ca).  
Don’t include an `@` sign at the beginning—this isn’t a [mention](https://help.github.com/en/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#mentioning-people-and-teams).  
</small>

<button>Register Group</button>

</fieldset>
</form>

When you register your group, the group members will be invited to a GitHub Team called `jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>` and will be granted access to a repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>`, which you’ll use for the rest of the course to submit iterations, receive reviews, communicate with your advisor, and so forth.

Your group will be assigned a temporary advisor for now, and by the end of [Iteration 1](/iterations/1) you’ll be assigned your definitive advisor.

# Project Proposal

At this point your group may not have decided on a project, especially if your group was formed during [Laboratory Session 1](#laboratory-session-1). In that case, you may submit not one project proposal, but two or three of them. In [Iteration 1](/iterations/1) you’ll decide which proposal to develop with the help of your (temporary) group advisor.

Your group’s project proposal may simply be a more elaborate version of a project proposal from one your group members’s [Assignment 0](/assignments/0#project-proposal).

The project proposal must include the following:

**Title:** If you already have a name for your project, then the title may be that name. If you don’t have a name for your project yet, then the title may be just a working title, for example, “Project GLaDOS.”

**Elevator Pitch:** A brief description of what you’re proposing.

These are the two or three sentences you’d use to describe your project to your advisor if you only had 30 seconds, for example, “we’re building a web application that is a social network for weasel owners to schedule weasel play-dates—it’s like Tinder, but for weasels.”

**Problem:** A more in-depth analysis of the problem your project is addressing.

For example, the description of the problem may start with: “Weasel owners are often ostracized by society because weasels are considered mean-spirited, so it’s difficult for them to arrange play-dates for their pets. Still, weasels are highly-social animals, […]”

If you’re working in a domain that isn’t generally understood by a broader audience, then you must include an introduction to that domain. For example, if you’re working with finances and the stock market, then you must explain what are ticks, Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs), or whatever else may be relevant to your project.

**Solution:** A more in-depth analysis of how your project is solving the problem introduced above, including the following:

- **Architecture Overview:** Are you building a web application, a mobile application, a desktop application, a software library, or something else entirely? Or are you combining a few of them (for example, if your project is a marketplace then you could be developing a web application for customers and a desktop application for service providers)?

  Are you integrating with existing Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) (for example, [GitHub’s API](https://developer.github.com/v3/)), or sending and receiving emails as a primary feature in the application (not only for notifications, but for something more functional, for example, what happens in [Kill the Newsletter!](https://www.kill-the-newsletter.com)), and so forth?

- **Features List:** A list of the _distinguishing_ features of your application.

  Don’t include obvious features like “user signup,” “login,” “create/read/update/delete cars from inventory,” and so forth—keep the signal-to-noise ratio high. Think of the features list as something that would make sense to include in a marketing website; for example, see [GitHub’s features list](https://github.com/features).

- **Wireframes:** Sketches of the _distinguishing_ parts of the user interface, including how information is be laid out and what are the flows through the application.

  Like in the Features List, don’t include wireframes for obvious features like “user signup,” “login,” and so forth.

  If you’re proposing to build a software library that doesn’t include a visual component, replace wireframes with a sketch of the API that the library provides.

- **User Stories:** If there are flows in the application that aren’t easily communicated with wireframes, then describe them as user stories.

  An user story usually starts with something like: “As a \<kind-of-actor\>, I want to \<action\>, so that \<goal\>.” From there, the user story elaborates on _how_ the actor performs the action to achieve the goal, including what should happen when things go wrong.

  For example, if the application is a blog, then an user story could start with: “As a comment moderator, I want to block users based on their region, so that their comments must be approved manually to reduce spam.” Then the user story would describe the steps to block users based on their region: drawing a region on a map, or providing a zip code, and so forth. The user story should also describe what should happen if the region is too big, or if the zip code doesn’t exist, and so forth.

**Viability:** Determine whether the project you’re proposing is even possible. Consider the following:

- **Hardware:** For example, of you’re building a mobile application, do all your group members have the necessary devices? Remember that to develop for iOS you also need Macs.

  Another example: If your project is related to the Internet of Things (IoT): Do all the group members have access to the devices? Can the devices do what you expect them to?

- **APIs:** If you’re planing on consuming some API: Does it have the data that you need? Do you have access to it, or it behind a paywall?

- **Tools:** If you need tools such as libraries and frameworks that aren’t in the [Toolbox](/toolbox): Do you have access to them, or are they paid? Can they do what you expect them to?

  This is particularly important if your project depends heavily on third-party libraries, for example, if you’re working in the domain of computer vision, natural-language processing, machine learning, and so forth.

- **Prototype:** If some of the above isn’t clear, build a quick prototype. For example, download and install the computer vision library you intend to use and show that it can find a face, or whatever else you may need for your project.

**Difficulty:** Determine whether the project you’re proposing is at the right scale.

This is subjective and difficult to estimate, so you must talk to the staff about it. At the bare minimum your project must include one _non-data-manipulation_ feature; ideally it includes several.

A counterexample of this is [TODOOSE](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose). TODOOSE a pedagogical application meant to introduce you to the [Toolbox](/toolbox), so all its features are data manipulation. Your project must go beyond this, including something you couldn’t do with a simple spreadsheet shared on the web. It must include some unique and interesting logic, instead of just gluing tools together.

But at the same time your project must be completed in one semester by 5 or 6 students who have other responsibilities in life.

It’s always possible to scale a project up or down by adding or removing features.

When scaling a project up, avoid vague features. For example, if you’re building a bulletin-board to post university-related events, you may propose a nontrivial feature such as “a recommendation system for events based on your interests.” Features like these are hard to pin down. Prefer something more concrete, for example, create a marketplace for event promoters to advertise in the media, which would require managing transactions, having different subsystems for event promoters and media representatives, and so forth.

**Market Research:** Answer the following two questions:

- **Who Are Your Users?** What problems do they have that will bring them to your application? How knowledgeable are they on technology and on the domain of your application? How much do you know about them? How much access do you have to them (for example, if you’re proposing to develop an application for blind people, it would be important to be in touch with a blind person)?

- **What’s Your Competition?** What applications are similar to yours? How is your application different?

  You don’t have to come up with a completely original project, but you may not just recreate an existing application either.

**Roadmap:** How do you plan on executing the project? Which features are the most important and must be addressed first? Which features may only be addressed after other features are complete?

  Read the pages for [Iterations 1–6](/#group-projects) to understand what you must accomplish by when. Break the project apart in tasks: more concrete for the next few iterations, and more vague for the later iterations. Think about who’s going to work on what parts of the project.

  Present the roadmap as a [GitHub Project Board](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-project-boards).

# Laboratory Session 1

First, read the rest of this page to understand what you must deliver for Iteration 0.

**If Your Group isn’t Formed:** This may be either because you’re not part of a group or because your group is looking for more members. Your main goal in this laboratory session is to form a group.

  Go to our usual classroom and discuss [your project proposals](/assignements/0#project-proposal) with other students. Look for people with similar interests in terms of theme and technologies, but with diverse backgrounds and levels of experience. A lot of what you’ll learn in this course won’t come from the staff, but from the other members of your group.

**If Your Group is Formed:** Go to the room assigned to your group, _not to our usual classroom_. Discuss [your project proposals](/assignements/0#project-proposal) with the other group members and the staff. Find a project that motivates your group and work with the staff to establish a balance in terms of difficulty. Work on the project proposal (or _proposals_, if you can’t decide on one yet) for your group.
