# Iteration 1: Design

Update the project board you submitted as the [Roadmap in Iteration 0](/iterations/0#roadmap) to keep track of your progress in this iteration.

# Project Proposal Revision

Submit your project proposal revision by editing the [Markdown](/toolbox/#authoring-language-markdown) document at `docs/project-proposal.md` in the `master` branch of your group’s repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>`.

If you submitted multiple proposals in [Iteration 0](/iterations/0), then you must decide on one now.

Discuss your proposal with your advisor. You may need to rework some parts, or scale your project up or down.

# Design

Submit the design of your application as a [Markdown](/toolbox/#authoring-language-markdown) document at `docs/design.md` in the `master` branch of your group’s repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>`.

## Architecture

This is a more detailed version of the Architecture Overview you introduced as part of the [Solution in your Project Proposal](/iterations/0#solution).

If you’re using only the tools in the [Toolbox](/toolbox), then this section may the same as the Architecture Overview: “We’re using the tools in Toolbox.”

If you’re deviating from the Toolbox, then you must specify the components of your application, for example, a web application for system administrators, a mobile application for customers, an API for plugin developers, and so forth.

You must also specify which tools outside the Toolbox you’re using, including services, APIs, libraries, frameworks, and so forth. For example, if you need an email server, then you must specify which email server you’re using (either [Exim](https://www.exim.org), or [Postfix](http://www.postfix.org), and so forth). You must discuss what these tools are and why you chose them, similar to what we did when introducing the [Toolbox](/toolbox).

## Class Diagram

The class diagram must communicate the structure of an implementation of the _distinguishing_ features of your application. Typically these are the classes that are _models_, not classes that are _controllers_, _repositories_, and so forth. Your class diagram must include enough information for an implementor to know what to do, but avoid clutter. A typical class diagram includes the following:

- At least 10 classes.
- At least 5 attributes.
- At least 5 methods.
- At least 5 associations between classes.
- Multiplicities in associations (for example, `0...n`, `2`, `*`, and so forth).
- Appropriate use of whole-part (diamond) annotations.
- Appropriate use of inheritance arrows.
- At least 2 design principles (annotate the diagram to point them out).
- At least 1 design pattern (annotate the diagram to point it out).

# Start Code Base

Submit the code base for of your application in the root directory of the `master` branch of your group’s repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>`.

Install all the tools listed in the [Architecture](#architecture) and make them work together. You may need to run project generators (for example, those included in [IntelliJ IDEA](/toolbox/#integrated-development-environmentide-intellijidea)), add dependencies in a build system, configure databases and email servers, and so forth. If you’re using only the tools in the Toolbox, you may accomplish this by starting with [TODOOSE](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose), removing everything specific to that application, and leaving behind only the skeleton (for example, removing the `ItemsController`, but leaving the package for controllers).

# Laboratory Sessions 2 & 3

Before the laboratory sessions, read the rest of this page to understand what you must submit for this iteration.

Go to the room assigned to your group, which may not be our usual classroom. Discuss your project proposal with your advisor. Work on the tasks for this iteration and show your progress to your advisor.
