# Iteration 2: First Feature

Update the project board you submitted as the [Roadmap in Iteration 0](/iterations/0#roadmap) to keep track of your progress in this iteration. Follow the so-called [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/). When you start working on a task, convert the note in the board for that task into a [GitHub Issue](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-issues), assign the issue to the responsible group members, and break it down in smaller steps. When finished working on a task, associate it with a [GitHub Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests), merge it, and close the issue. Add more details to the tasks for the next iterations and move notes around to other iterations as needed.

# Design Revision

Submit the revision of the design of your application as a [Markdown](/toolbox/#authoring-language-markdown) document at `docs/design.md` in the `master` branch of your group’s repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>`.

Discuss the design of your application with your advisor. You may need to revise some parts.

# First Feature

You must implement the first feature of your application from end to end. Typically this is the one of the central features of your application, but it must also be something relatively simple, because this is your first feature. The feature must exercise all parts of your [Architecture](/iterations/1#architecture), including database, tests, API design, deployment, and so forth. You must work with your advisor early in the iteration to establish what’s a suitable first feature.

You may need to revise parts of the [Design](/iterations/1#design), and even parts of the [Project Proposal](/iterations/0#project-proposal) as you develop the application.
